---
title: The girl wanted to rodeo … and the DLC helped her get there!
intro_image: /assets/img/IMG_1268.JPG
hero_image: /assets/img/IMG_1268-1514673393.JPG
id: 64f45377-4233-4180-91f0-0034d3dbda9b
---
<p><em>Submitted by: Monika Schultz (Bliss’s Mom)</em>
</p>
<p>When Bliss started grade 10 at Biggar Central School, we asked ourselves how she was going to continue to travel the many miles for rodeo and get a high school education.  Many kids who rodeo access online learning, but do not have the opportunity to attend part time or participate in school sports.  Our school Principal, Kim Fick, explored the opportunity of enrolling Bliss at Sun West Distance Learning Center in Kenaston, and we decided to give it a whirl.  Bliss studied DLC courses while on the road and attended school when she was home.  It was an unusual life for a teenage girl, but it was the best fit her both academically and socially.  As unexpected as it may be, she could accomplish a great deal of schoolwork in the backseat of our GMC 3500HD dually.
</p>
<p>Bliss has had great success in the sport of rodeo.  She has earned many titles, awards and money in her short career and hopes to earn a lot more.  Bliss has competed at both the amateur and pro levels of competition.  She is an <em>All Around Cowgirl</em>, meaning she has the ability to compete in more than one event.  Her primary event is barrel racing, but at the college level she will compete in roping and goat tying also. Due to her accomplishments, Bliss was invited to attend several post secondary institutions in the USA on rodeo scholarships.  The decision was tough, but she recently accepted a scholarship for the Nursing Program from Northwest College Wyoming, USA.  Bliss and her three horses will be moving this August to be part of the rodeo team and pursue her post-secondary learning.
</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
	<td>
		<p><em>A note from Haddie Korolis (one of Bliss’s teachers):</em>
		</p>
		<p><em>Success doesn’t happen naturally. Completing schoolwork in the back of a truck isn’t very natural or the ‘normal’ way to get things done but when she commits, Bliss makes things happen.  And she does so ready to work, with attention to detail, and consideration of self.  She exemplifies that we can balance our work, our passions, and our dreams!   </em>
		</p>
	</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Without the Distance Learning Centre experience, the thousands of miles necessary to compete in a variety of associations would not have been possible. The teachers, principal and support staff at the DLC are second to none.  Their true enthusiasm and support for Bliss in her pursuit of rodeo was outstanding.
</p>
<p>Congratulations, Bliss!  We’re thrilled to have been a part of your learning journey and wish you every success in Wyoming!
</p>